OK, so after running to Princeton half marathons I was curious to try double the distance after doing a couple of 3 km runs in December. I signed up for the Sallys marathon and started my training plan train block was a crazy journey. The first several weeks were dominated by fights against the weather because the winter was very cold and snowy, then I caught the flu for a few days. Then I entered the shoe face because I tried the car plate with the Nike Alphafly three on a long run with Madison pays and they gave me huge calf issues. I also tried the vapor four which also gave me calf issues and a bad blister so India and I was going into the race after this crazy journey, but I had still gained a lot of fitness and I was thinking something around 2:55 would’ve been realistic. I also car loaded the days before race and paid a lot of attention to the food just before the race for example I had bread plus marmalade at 4 AM while the race was starting at 7 AM and I had a detailed fueling plan so I went to the Reyes feeling very well very pumped and I took my first Gelles before the start as according to plan I should say this should be sent earlier that most of my training block was has been done in sub freezing temperatures while Reyes was in a very warm day about 18 Celsius at the start enough to 22 by the end OK so I took my Gelles went to the side line I was feeling great and as soon as I started running like not even 500 m I had stomach pain as if the Gelles was still sitting there rather than going down to be digested so anyway, so these will be a beat the theme of the whole race, but apart from digest the social issues I have to say that the first part of the race was actually pretty nice so I locked into a very constant base around initially for the first 20 km around 408 per kilometer than a slightly slow down to 413 to 414 up to kilometer 32 but how to say so I was running fine, but I had the stomach cramps the whole way so the first Gelles didn’t get digested by the time I had to take the second one so I took the second one which then just sat on top of the first one and and this kept going for all the subsequent jobs and these just increased my stomach pain so I had stomach cramps, which made me very uncomfortable and several times. I thought I could stop and try to vomit, but I didn’t so this. I think it’s slowed me down very slightly and during the whole race, I got one cup of water at every single aid station, though even though I was using the pinching technique, I was still not getting enough water because some some Witte was still slushing out of the cups and I was waiting so much I was very much not used to the heat so anyway up 2 km 32. Everything was pretty good. Some patches were a bit rough due to of course the stomach cramps, and some sections were into direct headwind which cost a a few seconds per kilometer, but nothing too bad and then a kilometer 32 I thought pfitz words no now you’re free to see what you’ve got and so I told myself OK now it’s time to push and instead of increasing the pace my pace just started to go down and down and down in a linear way with distance and I ended up around five minutes per kilometer at the finish line so after the finish, I was completely unable to do anything mentally blank, and I even tried to sip some water, but it was extremely hard because my stomach was hurting a lot, and I spent over an hour just sitting on a chair with my head on a table and my arms around my head, unable to do pretty much anything and with with the stomach still hurting now after over an hour likely just before my word for 3rd Pl., Mail 2529 the G.I. distressed went away and I suddenly suddenly got back all my energies. No this was a textbook literally hitting the wall so why did this happen of course all things point to the same explanation which is that I didn’t adjust my jobs. They just sat on my stomach for the whole race, giving me pain and I only digested them after sitting on that chair for an hour, I should say it’s actually not a chair. It’s like one of those picnic tables with benches anyway so why did they know they just the judges? I don’t know, but I have a few ideas. One idea is that when I trained with gels on long fast run it was below freezing often like a -10 or something like that and in that case I was training while running, but also in a condition where no blood was directed to the skin to the heat while today, I was waiting so so much more than during those training runs, which means that the blood was near the skin to produce that sweat, and so it wasn’t available to the stomach to digest. It could also be that the adrenaline at the start play the role because I didn’t even digest the very first gel which I had just before starting you know just after finishing the warm-up and you know that I wasn’t running, but I was like bouncing on my feet and getting pumped at the start line. I should also say that at the end when I got back to the hotel, I noticed that I had many salt crystals to the size of my eyes just along the eyebrows and the lateral part of the forehead, which probably also means I was electrolyte depleted because if I didn’t absorb any of those gels, then I also didn’t get the sodium from those and my plan was to get all the sodium from the gels because I was drinking water and not Gatorade on the course and I will also touch plot of my splits which showed the textbook bonk anyway this is the story of what happened and the theory of what happened but I should say I am very very proud of this race. It’s my first marathon. You absolutely take this time and especially the placement. Placement was really good. I came in ninth place out of 287 and third mail between 25 and 29 and given what happened I actually think this time as well is a great time. I basically ran on the glycogen I stored during the previous days and I didn’t digest any race fuel during the run since I’m kind of weirdly happy that I got to experience running purely on glycogen and experiencing the like hitting the wall on my first step marathon like it’s an interesting experience. It’s so cool to see all these mechanism play in the body.